# Fluent::Plugin::Triton

Welcome to your new gem! In this directory, you'll find the files you need to be able to package up your Ruby library into a gem. Put your Ruby code in the file `lib/fluent/plugin/triton`. To experiment with that code, run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt.

This gem contains Custom Fluentd plugins used at Triton One.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'fluent-plugin-triton'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install fluent-plugin-triton

## Usage

### Nomad filter plugin

This filter plugin allow you to add tags nomad related records from logs emitted by nomad client.

Here is an example how to write a `fluent.conf` file to add useful nomad tag:

```xml
<source>
  @type tail
  path '/var/lib/nomad/alloc/**/**/alloc/logs/*.stdout.*'
  pos_file /var/log/td-agent/tmp/access.log.pos
  <parse>
    @type json
  </parse>
  path_key tailed_path
  tag nomad.log
</source>

<filter nomad.log>
  @type record_transformer
  enable_ruby
  <record>
    alloc_id ${record['tailed_path'].split('alloc/')[1].split('/')[0]}
  </record>
</filter>

<filter nomad.log>
  @type nomad
  alloc_id_field alloc_id
  nomad_addr <NOMAD_ADDR>
  nomad_token <NOMAD_TOKEN>
</filter>
```
The first `nomad.log` source tail all allocation folder generated by nomad-client.
For each record we add the provenance "tailed_path" to it so we can extract it's allocation id.

The first `nomad.log` filter extract the `alloc_id` used to query allocation information such as job, node, task group, namespace, etc.

The second `nomad.log` filter descripe what field contains the `alloc_id` using `alloc_id_field` and you can provide
`nomad_addr` and `nomad_token` as connection information.

The last two parameters are optional if `fluentd`'s environment variable contains `NOMAD_TOKEN` and `NOMAD_ADDR`.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/fluent-plugin-triton.
